hello I'm Lauren Taylor we start in the
Middle East Gaza ceasefire talks are due
to resume in Kat after what a Us
official has described as a constructive
first day of discussions on Thursday
Israeli representatives are attending
but Hamas which runs Gaza has stayed
away accusing Israel of changing its
terms since previous rounds of talks a
Hamas official also reiterated that any
agreement must achieve a comprehensive
ceasefire a complete Israeli withdrawal
from Gaza and the return of the placed
on Thursday the Hamas run Health
Ministry reported that the number of
Palestinians killed in Gaza has passed
40,000 although Israel disputes the
figure later the families of Israeli
hostages still held captive in Gaza
following hamas's October the 7th
attacks gathered to demand a deal to
secure their release with several
thousand marching in Tel Aviv a little
earlier our Middle East correspondent
Yulan Nell gave me a sense of how the
seire talks have gone so
far well we had a White House spokesman
say
late yesterday that they had got off to
a promising start the Israeli media this
morning has been talking about guarded
optimism saying it's a positive sign
that the Israeli delegation that was
sent the negotiating team uh decided to
stay overnight despite what they see um
as some security risk in Doha and that
they are continuing these talks with us
cat and Egyptian mediators uh today now
Hamas as we were saying has not sent a
delegation along to the these indirect
talks um but of course Hamas leaders are
present in Doha and what mediators have
been saying is they have ways um to get
messages back to Hamas um so this is not
seen as as being um the obstacle that it
may appear to be and you land in the
meantime development on the West Bank
Israeli political leaders including
Benjamin Netanyahu and two far-right
ministers have condemned a large group
of Jewish settlers who went on the
Rampage in a village in the occupied
West Bank setting houses and cars on
fire settlers some of them wearing masks
were armed with batons rocks and molto
Cocktails as they descended on the
village of jit at least one Palestinian
was killed another seriously injured and
it's a reminder that youan that there's
violence quite often in the West Bank
that is less well reported than events
in
Gaza that's right although we've had
these strong comments coming from
Israeli leaders the president calling it
a pogram for example um this is by far
you know far from an isolated incident
um we have the UN AA agency which has
been monitoring attacks on Palestinian
civilians by extremist settlers saying
that since the start of the war in Gaza
they have um found something like
1,250 attacks by settlers um on
Palestinians and there have been on top
of that you know something like um 17 18
Palestinian communities where people
have been forced by by settler
harassment away from their homes um
those communities in some places um
having uh settlers move in setting up a
temporary outposts there those are uh
sort of seeds of settlements um that are
not even authorized by the Israeli
authorities all settlements seen as
being illegal under international law we
had the White House also coming out
quickly to condemn uh what is happen
saying that such violence against
Palestinian civilians was unacceptable
and must stop there have been lots of
complaints from the International
Community from Israeli NOS as well there
is a sense of impunity when it comes to
a lot of these attacks uh you do not see
prosecutions by the Israeli
authorities let's speak now to Nomi
bakov a Middle East expert and Associate
fellow of International Security program
at chattam house who's in our
Westminster Studio thanks very much
indeed for being with us I just wonder
what your impression is of the the talks
that have restarted in Doha and the
progress so far and How likely it is
that there'll be some kind of a a
concrete outcome this time round thank
you very much Lauren for having me um on
the show this morning I think that the
talks are very serious I think we're at
a critical stage we're at a make or
break stage and I think that is known
not only to the three mediators Qatar
Egypt and um the us but also to Israel
and Hamas and therefore um we are at a
um pivotal moment a Breaking Point and
I'm cautiously optimistic I think talks
are going well and the lines have been
drawn dra they're very very clear and
hopefully there will be an outcome of a
an agreement on a framework uh it's not
unlikely that all the details will be
ironed out today but it is very much my
hope and the hope of the mediators and
the parties that a framework will be
agreed and thereby the implementation
will be what is going to um need further
discussions Beyond today now Hass are
not attending directly but they are
based Doha some of the some of their
political uh fellows are based in in
Doha so they presumably will get some of
the feedback from the talks do you think
it makes any difference that they're not
uh directly attending no I don't
actually I think that given that the
Hamas leadership is based in Doha they
are essentially a part of the uh
negotiation but in in any event the
Israelis and the Hamas Niks are not
sitting in the same room with the
negotiators so they are being um updated
regularly by the mediators and feedback
is coming in so I think yes they announc
that they're not sending anyone but
they're actually there what do you
expect in terms of any kind of
retaliation from Iran or hisbah for the
uh killings of the of isma Hanah and
also the hisbah commander recently there
was some talk that perhaps if a
ceasefire in Gaza were achieved that
might be be taken off the table do you
think that they will still go ahead
anyway with some kind of form of
retaliation well I think everything
hinges on the outcome of these current
negot negotiations so um hisbah have
vowed to um retaliate for the
assassination of H shuker for which
Israel took responsibility and um Iran
have vowed to retaliate for the
assassination of isma Hanah the
political leader of Hamas on their soil
you know into Iran two weeks just over
two weeks ago that said um there have
been tremendous diplomatic efforts both
behind the scenes and openly to ensure
that no retaliation takes place um at
and that a chance is before a cease a
chance for a ceasefire agreement is
being given and the Chance is now so I
think everyone everything hinges on the
outcome of this particular negotiation
if an agreement a framework agreement
will be reached I don't think we will
see an Iranian and Hezbollah immediate
retaliation if an agreement is not
reached on the other hand then I think
we're all doomed and I think we're going
to see a very serious coordinated uh
retaliation with between uh um Iran
Iran's many long arms proxies in the
region and hisbah noi Yakov thank you
very much indeed for joining us thank
you thank you Lauren